# 12.3 Exercises

1. ```
   TREE-INSERT-RECURSE( x, z )
      next = NIL
      if z.key < x.key
         if x.left == NIL
            x.left = z
            return
         next = x.left
      else
         if x.right == NIL
            x.right = z
            return
         next = x.right
      TREE-INSERT-RECURSE( next, z )

   TREE-INSERT-RECURSIVE(T, z)
      if T.root == NIL
         T.root = z
      TREE-INSERT-RECURSE( T.root, z )
   ```

2. TREE-SEARCH follows an identical path to TREE-INSERT, examining the same nodes except with the addition of the key itself.

3. Read-out is always $\Theta(n)$. Worst case is $O(n^2)$ where all values are inserted in order and `TREE-INSERT` traverses the entire tree on each insert; best case is $\Omega(n\lg n)$ where the resulting tree is balanced and `TREE-INSERT` traverses only $\Omega(\lg n)$ nodes for each insert.

4. It is not commutative in general. Consider the tree\
   1\
   +-0\
   +-3\
   +-+-2\
   Where we delete 0 and 1. The order of deletion (1, 0) produces:\
   2\
   +-3\
   While the order of deletion (0, 1) produces:\
   3\
   +-2\

5. Eliding full implementation.\
   `SEARCH` is identical; no dependency on the change.\
   `INSERT` has to find the predecessor and successor. Keep track of the last ancestor with left or right children (since you won't know until done which the parent will be). Use to adjust `successor` members.\
   `DELETE` also has to find the predecessor of the node to be deleted; easy when it has left children (minimum); otherwise, use a modified version of the `SEARCH` procedure to find the first ancestor with `z` in its right subtree and find the predecessor from there same as before.

6. Changing the side followed and the minimum vs maximum, but that's just finding and following the predecessor. A fair strategy could easily select between the two strategies using either `RANDOM( 0, 1 )` or preserving a member on the tree which indicates which strategy was used last and calling the two subroutines.