# 10.2 Exercises

1. `INSERT` always, `DELETE` only when no label is provided; if a label is provided, have to search the list in $O(n)$ time.

2. On `PUSH` insert, on `POP` delete and return the first element.

3. Keep a pointer to the tail of the list. `ENQUEUE` by inserting at the tail, `DEQUEUE` by removing and returning the first element. Note that the other way doesn't work for a singly-linked list, as it would require an $O(n)$ seek to the second-to-last element to maintain its pointer on every `DEQUEUE`.

4. Set the key of the sentinel to be $k$, possibly clearing after finding the key. Since we return the sentinel for `NIL` anyway, it can work in some contexts.

5. Basically the same as before, just have to maintain first pointer to end instead of `NIL`. `INSERT` and no-label `DELETE` still $O(1)$, `SEARCH` and labelled `DELETE` still $O(n)$

6. Let the sets be implemented with list structure where a pointer to the tail and to the head are both available in O(1) operations. Update $S_1$'s tail to point to $S_2$'s head (and update $S_2$'s head if using doubly-linked lists), and $S_2$'s tail to point to $S_1$'s head (and update $S_1$'s head if using doubly-linked lists), plus update any extra tail pointer to point to $S_2$'s tail.

7. ```
   REVERSE( L )
      x = L.head
      n = NIL
      while x.next != NIL
         p = x.next
         x.next = n
         n = x
         x = p
      L.head = x
   ```

8. Keep a pointer to HEAD and a pointer to TAIL. Keeping the pointer to the previous element while iterating allows retrieving the other pointer by `XOR` with `x.np`.  Reversing the order only requires swapping the HEAD and TAIL pointers, which is O(1).