# 5.3 Exercises

1. Simply add the phrase "... or is empty with probability 1" to the end. The initialization then becomes trivially true.

2. No, it does not. It prevents every permutation in which $A[i]$ is is the same before and after for all $i$, which is comprise more than the identity permutation for arrays of size greater than $2$. For example, it prevents the permutation $[1, 2, 3]\rightarrow[2,1,3]$.

3. This algorithm produces $n^n$ possible series' of swaps, uniformly chosen. These may be thought of as paths to the $n!$ possible permutations. However, since $n^n$ is not evenly divisible by $n!$ for $n>2$, it cannot produce permutations with uniform probability. So the answer is NO.

4. The probability is trivial. The mistake is that the distribution of locations is not independent; that is, given $A[i]$, the other positions are determined with probability 1 due to the order remaining the same.

5. $\displaystyle\binom{n^3}{n}\frac{1}{n^{3n}}=\frac{n^3!}{n^{3n}(n^3-n)!(n)!}$ is the exact probabilty. Actual solution is [here](https://ita.skanev.com/05/03/05.html).

6. After sorting in non-decreasing order, run a check by iterating over the sorted array and priorities; if there are blocks of equal priorities, recursively shuffle those by calling PERMUTE-BY-SORTING on the subarray.

7. For zero, tivially true. On the first (real), draws uniformly from $[1,n-m+1]$, giving each candidate a chance of $\frac{1}{n-m+1}$ to be chosen. Next, the sample is uniform from $[1,n-m+2]$, except that the element at $n-m+2$ has two chances of being chosen. The probability of choice for $[1,n-m+1]$ is thus $\frac{1}{n-m+1}+\frac{n-m}{n-m+1}\frac{1}{n-m+2}=\frac{n-m+2+n-m}{(n-m+1)(n-m+2)}=\frac{2n-2m+2}{(n-m+1)(n-m+2)}=\frac{2}{n-m+2}$. The element at $n-m+2$ has a chance of $\frac{2}{n-m+2}$ from plain sampling; these probabilities are equal, and this equal and independant probability forms the loop invariant which, in the end, produces a uniform $\binom{n}{m}$ random sample