# 16.4 Exercises

1. Clearly $S$ is a finite set and $I_k$ is hereditary since all subsets of sets in $I_k$ are subsets of $S$ of size at most $k$ and thus in $I_k$. Further, for any sets $A$ and $B$ in $I_k$ such that $|A|\leq|B|$, Since $A$ contains fewer elements than $B$, and membership of all elements is independent, it clearly satisfies the exchange property. Therefore, $(S,I_k)$ is a matroid, which is the very thing that was to be shown.

2. Clearly $S$ is a finite set where $|S|=n$, and $I$ is hereditary since all subsets of a set of linearly independent columns are also linearly independant. Further, for any sets $A$ and $B$ in $I_k$ such that $|A|\leq|B|$, Since $A$ contains fewer elements than $B$, and membership of all elements is independent, it clearly satisfies the exchange property. Therefore, $(S,I)$ is a matroid, which is the very thing that was to be shown.

3. Clearly $S$ remains a finite set and $I'$ is hereditary since all subsets of sets in $I'$ are also in $I'$. Further, for any sets $A$ and $B$ in $I_k$ such that $|A|\leq|B|$, Since $A$ contains fewer elements than $B$, and membership of all elements is independent, it clearly satisfies the exchange property. Therefore, $(S,I)$ is a matroid, which is the very thing that was to be shown.

4. Clearly $S$ is a finite set and $I$ is hereditary since all subsets of sets in $I$ also satisfy the condition of at most one overlapping element with each subset $S_i$. Further, for any sets $A$ and $B$ in $I_k$ such that $|A|\leq|B|$, Since $A$ contains fewer elements than $B$, and membership of all elements is independent, it clearly satisfies the exchange property. Therefore, $(S,I)$ is a matroid, which is the very thing that was to be shown.

5. Simple: construct a new set of weights why subtracting each element's original weight from the maximum weight among all elements. This will always produce weights of at least 0, and the maximum weight maximal independent subset computed using the new weights is equivalent to the minimum weight maximal independent subset computed using the original weights because of the negation of the original weights.