# 9.3 Exercises

1. For 7 elements, the number of elements with guaranteed position is\
   $\displaystyle4({\lceil{\frac{1}{2}\lceil \frac{n}{7} \rceil }\rceil} - 2)$\
   $=2n/7-8$\
   Which yeilds the recursion\
   $T(n) \leq T( \lceil n/7 \rceil ) + T( 5n/7 + 8 )+O(n)$\
   Substituting in $T(n)\leq cn$ and $O(n) = an$, we find\
   $T(n)$\
   $\leq c\lceil n/7 \rceil + c( 5n/7 + 8 )+an$\
   $\leq cn/7 + c + 5cn/7 + 8c + an$\
   $= 6cn/7 + 9c + an$\
   $= cn + (-cn/7 + 9c + an )$\
   Which is at most $cn$ if $-cn/7 + 9c + an \leq 0$. This condition is equivalent to $c \geq 7a(n/(n-63)) \forall n>63$. Keeping $n\geq140$, any constant $c\geq13$ will satisfy the condition, therefore $T(n)=O(n)$, QED..\
   \
   Following the same procedure for groups of 3, the number of elements with guaranteed position is\
   $\displaystyle({\lceil{\frac{1}{2}\lceil \frac{n}{3} \rceil }\rceil} - 2 )$\
   $=n/6-2$\
   Which yields the recursion\
   $T(n) \leq T( \lceil n/3 \rceil ) + T( 5n/6 + 2 )+O(n)$\
   Substituting in $T(n)\leq cn$ and $O(n) = an$, we find\
   $T(n)$\
   $\leq c\lceil n/3 \rceil + c( 5n/6 + 2 )+an$\
   $\leq cn/3 + c + 5cn/6 + 2c + an$\
   $= 7cn/6 + 3c + an$\
   $= cn + (cn/6 + 3c + an )$\
   Which is at most $cn$ if $-cn/7 + 9c + an \leq 0$, which hase no solution for $a>0,c>0,n>0$. Therefore, using groups of 3 does not allow linear time. QED.

2. As shown in the chapter, there are at least $\frac{3n}{10}-6$ elements greater or lesser than the median-of-medians. It is sufficient to show this is greater than $\lceil\frac{n}{4}\rceil$ for all $n\geq140$\
   $\frac{3n}{10}-6\geq\lceil\frac{n}{4}\rceil$\
   $\frac{3n}{10}-6\geq\frac{n}{4}+1$\
   $\frac{3n}{10}-7\geq\frac{n}{4}$\
   $6n-140\geq5n$\
   $n\geq140$\
   QED.

3. Use SELECT to choose the partition element.

4. In order for an algorithm using only comparisons to determine the $i$th element to succeed, it must have determined the set of elements smaller or larger than the $i$th element; proof by contradicion, any element for which this is not known might displace the chosen element from the $i$th position.

5. Substitute for the recursive SELECT in finding the median (skipping all the median-of-median stuff).

6. Partition around middle order(s) recursively untill all assigned. See [here](https://ita.skanev.com/09/03/06.html) for full treatment.

7. Find the median and partition around it, then find the $\lceil k/2\rceil$ order statistic of the upper partition and the $\lceil(n-k)/2\rceil$ order statistic of the lower partition, and partition the partitions around those order statistics. This produces the result in 3 calls to $O(n)$ processes.

8. If the two are length 1, return the lower element. Otherwise, compare the median ($O(1)$) of each array. Choose the lower half of the array with the greater median, and the upper half of the array with the lesser median, and repeat with the smaller arrays.

9. Find the median y coordinate and place it at that location. Otherwise, the total spur length could be reduced by moving the line toward the side with the larger number of wells. Use SELECT to find the median in linear time.